# SysML-Past-Class-Project-AVTS

Modeling a Micro-Transit System operated by Autonomous Vehicles (AVTS)

Introduction

This class project explicitly focusses on modelling an Architecture for the deployment of Autonomous Vehicle Technology within a micro-transit system to provide shuttle service over a short-medium distance of about 2 miles, with multiple stops. This work will reflect upon my understanding to define the autonomous vehicle operations over a small grid of routes with a couple of road intersections comprised under a 1.8 square mile area of a micro-transit system, on a real-time and frequent basis within an industrial park facility. The AVTS employs self-driving transit vehicles that perform sensory recognition, cognition/ processing, storage, judgement and control functions necessary to support safe, reliable and efficient movement of passengers. The technology is evolved from the Advanced Driver Assistance System. It enhances vehicle safety, reduces congestion, with level-4 autonomy in Connected & fully Autonomous Vehicles, deployed for easy accessibility, frequent availability, reliability, affordability and safety of commuters.

System Characteristics: Autonomous vehicles possesses real time-sensitive behaviors as it senses the environment and makes driving decisions in free drivable space around it, by perception (monitoring its environment using combined data from subsystem sensors- cameras, short/long-range radars and lidars to detect and classify objects, speed and direction, building a 3d model and map data), motion planning (computing operation to determine desired vehicle behavior while accounting traffic rules and planning the optimum route to desired destination with multiple backup plans) and control (implements final planned path, commands actuators of steering, throttle, braking and transmission subsystems for full maneuverability with stability and traction). This technology enables human-machine interface i.e., vehicles communicate with each other (V2V) and infrastructure (V2I), also possessing non-time-sensitive behaviors of execution and operations.

System Challenges: Integrate the main computing system with signal communications between sub-systems, perception sensors (far-field and near field cameras to recognize, classify and track objects; radar to identify objects and track rate of speed of other vehicles), collision detector (safety backup), vehicle controls (through steering and braking sub-systems) with backup, independent vehicle localization (by lidar), to form simple interfaces and interact with computers, sensors and actuators for alternative operational measures. Detect traffic signals and respond to traffic laws by onboard sensors against map data. Deploy vehicle health monitoring strategy for diagnostics integrated across systems within, to determine vehicle health and perform fallback maneuvers when needed [1].

The System Architecture shall capture functional coverage of the automated driving capabilities in a micro-transit system. In my opinion, this system is complex enought to interpret and respond to the dynamic environment within a facility. It possesses real-time behaviour owing to departure and arrival at the destination within set schedules while executing the operations of perception, motion planning and control. It enables real-time architecting on account of interactions with the surrounding environment through machine perception. Thus, overall this project can be consolidated as a broad-based autonomous ride-hailing services/ delivery service. It also enables an opportunity to practice enterprise architecting of a system ventured by industry and government partners with automakers and software giants provided within a specifically-defined area of a city under supporting weather conditions and shortfalls that shall be addressed in formally modeling the System with Cameo Systems Modeler during the course progress [2].

References

[1] A matter of trust. Ford’s approach to developing self-driving vehicles.
[2] Todd Litman (2013-2019) et al Autonomous Vehicle Implementation Predictions.
